Add a Stability policy (#3622)
python-telegram-bot/python-telegram-bot: docs/source/stability_policy.rst

In these cases, we may decide to provide an extended deprecation period, at our discretion.

With version 20.0.0, PTB introduced majorly structural breaking changes without the above deprecation period.
Should a similarly big change ever be deemed necessary by the development team and should a deprecation period prove too much additional effort, this violation of the stability policy will be announced well ahead of the release in our channel.

Non-Bot API Functionality
#########################

Starting with version NEXT.VERSION, deprecated functionality will stay available for the current and the next major version.
More precisely:

-  In PTB X.Y.Z the feature exists
-  In PTB X.Y.(Z + 1) or X.(Y + 1).* the feature is marked as deprecated
-  In PTB (X + 1).*.* the feature is marked as deprecated
-  In PTB (X + 2).0.0 the feature is removed or changed

.. _bot-api-versioning:

Bot API Functionality
#####################

As PTB has no control over deprecations introduced by Telegram and the schedule of these deprecations rarely coincides with PTBs deprecation schedule, we have a special policy for Bot API functionality.

> Starting with NEXT.VERSION, deprecated Bot API functionality will stay available for the current and the next major version *or* until the next version of the Bot API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with NEXT.VERSION, deprecated Bot API functionality will stay available for the current and the next major PTB version *or* until the next version of the Bot API.
```

More precisely, two cases are possible.

Case 1
^^^^^^

-  In PTB X.Y.Z the feature exists
-  Bot API version N.M is released and deprecates the feature

> -  In PTB X.(Y + 1).0 adds support for Bot API A.B and the feature is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  PTB X.(Y + 1).0 adds support for Bot API N.M and the feature is
```

   marked as deprecated
-  In PTB (X + 1).0.0 the feature is removed or changed

Case 2
^^^^^^

-  In PTB X.Y.Z the feature exists
-  Bot API version N.M is released and deprecates the feature
-  PTB X.(Y + 1).0 adds support for Bot API N.M and the feature is marked as deprecated

> -  Bot API version N.(M + 1) is released
> -  In PTB X.(Y + 2).0 adds support for Bot API N.(M + 1) and the feature is removed or changed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Bot API version N.(M + k) is released
-  In PTB X.(Y + i).0 adds support for Bot API N.(M + 1) and the feature is removed or changed
```

it doesn't have to be consecutive does it? Now this is getting really complicated...

> Stability Policy

Reviewer 2: You uppercased policy everywhere, I wouldn't, its just a noun no?

Author: Don't know why I did that ...

================

> The ``python-telegram-bot`` library (PTB) tries to provides a stable interface to its users.

Author: I had written this mainly as prelude for the next sentence. Will rework that paragraph.

> As both the user base and the complexity of the library has grown significantly since PTBs conception, we introduced below explicit stability Policy with version NEXT.VERSION.

Reviewer 2: I like the sentence, I do not like it in there, because I wouldn't really care why the policy exists when reading the policy itself, especially in future time. Put it in the announcement or in the readme or wherever we link to it. If you want to keep the version reference, maybe

```suggestion
Starting with version NEXT.VERSION, PTB gives itself/its contributors the following stability policy
```

Id probably move it to the end of the paragraph however.

Author: Good points 👍
I will keep a version reference as it's important to me that users can see which versions this applies to and which not

> Large parts of the :mod:`telegram` package are the Python representations of the Telegram Bot API, the stability policy of which PTB can not influence.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Large parts of the :mod:`telegram` package are the Python representations of the Telegram Bot API, which stability PTB can not influence.
```

Reviewer: should be "whose"?

Reviewer 2: its not a person

Reviewer: > its not a person

I think you may be confusing that with "who's"

This policy hence includes some special cases for those parts.

What does this policy cover?
----------------------------

> This policy includes any API or behavior that is documented in this documentation.

Reviewer 2: Since this is readable outside of the doc website, I would link to it. Maybe

```suggestion
This policy includes any API or behaviour that is covered in PTBs documentation, found at https://docs.python-telegram-bot.org/en/stable/
```

Author: Is it? Where? 🤔

Reviewer 2: at least in the github repo :D

But you are right, probably not needed, wasn't sure when suggesting this either.

This covers both the :mod:`telegram` package and the :mod:`telegram.ext` package.

What doesn't this policy cover?
-------------------------------

> Introduction of new features or changes of flavors of comparable behavior (e.g. the default for the used HTTP protocol version) are not covered by this policy.
> The internal structure of classes in PTB, i.e. things like the result of ``dir(obj))`` or the contents of ``obj.__dict__``, may change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Introduction of new features or changes of flavors of comparable behavior (e.g. the default for the used HTTP protocol version) are not covered by this policy.

The internal structure of classes in PTB, i.e. things like the result of ``dir(obj))`` or the contents of ``obj.__dict__``, may change.
```

Objects are in general not guaranteed to be pickleable (unless stated otherwise) and pickled objects from one version of PTB may not be loadable in future versions.
We may provide a way to convert pickled objects from one version to another, but this is not guaranteed.

Functionality that is part of PTBs API but is explicitly documented to not be intended to be used directly by users (e.g. :meth:`telegram.request.BaseRequest.do_request`) may change.
This also applies to functions or attributes marked as final in the sense of `PEP 591 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0591/>`__.

PTB has dependencies to 3rd party packages.
The versions that PTB uses of these 3rd party packages may change if that does not change PTBs public API.

PTB does not give guarantees about which Python versions are supported.

> In general, we will try to support all Python versions that have not yet reached their end of life, but we reserve ourselves the option to drop support for Python versions earlier if that benefits the advancement of the library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In general, we will try to support all Python versions that have not yet reached their end of life, but we reserve ourselves the option to drop support for Python versions earlier if that benefits the advancement of the library significantly.
```

Author: I don't quite see the added value...

Whether it benefits the advancement of PTB will always ba a call that the dev team has to make anyways. And if if does, it does so significantly enough for the team to make that decision.

Reviewer 2: I just like the wording more. But I am fine not including it.

.. _bot-api-functionality-1:

> Bot API Functionality

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bot API functionality
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Comparison of equality of the classe in the :mod:`telegram` package is subject to change and the PTB team will update the behavior to best reflect updates in the Bot API.

Reviewer 2: so we will immediately update those now, meaning a class from the previous version (e.g. saved in chat_data) compared to the same class in a new version will not be the same? I remember us not having a consent on this, right? In any case, I would expand on this like I did in the beginning to make sure people understand what happen when they update.

Author: Correct. So far we did not touch the equality comparison on non-breaking releases. I agree however that it's nicer to have that in sync with the API and with a documented policy in place I'm good with doing that.

What exactly would you like to elaborate?

Reviewer 2: _and the PTB team will update the behavior to best reflect updates in the Bot API. This can mean that comparing an object with one from a previous version (e.g. when loading from storage) can fail. We will warn about this in the affected object documentation._

I am not happy about the wording, but the gist: If we need to update ._id_attr, we will warn in the version string, but it can mean a fail in edge cases.

> When arguments of the Bot API methods change order or become optional/mandatory due to changes in the Bot API, PTB will always try to reflect these changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the order of arguments of Bot API methods switch or they become optional/mandatory due to changes in the Bot API, PTB will always reflect these changes.
```
we dont try to reflect, we always reflect, no? Just in the least breaking way, see next paragraph

Author: You're referring to

> While we try to make such changes backwards compatible, this is not always possible or only with significant effort.
In such cases we will find a trade-off between backwards compatibility and fully complying with the Bot API, which may result in breaking changes.
We highly recommend using keyword arguments, which can help to make such changes non-breaking on your end.

I guess? 

IMO we don't always fully reflect the Bot API. (That ofc also depends a bit on what one means by that). Best example is the order of the optional arguments in PTB differs from the Bot API quite often. Also we recently didn't remove the `thumb` arguments immediately which can also be seen as "not (fully) reflecting the changes".

Stating here that we always fully reflect the changes in the Bot API is IMO a contradiction to the paragraph that I quoted above …

Author: applied the wording changes for now

Reviewer 2: I like it like that

While we try to make such changes backwards compatible, this is not always possible or only with significant effort.
In such cases we will find a trade-off between backwards compatibility and fully complying with the Bot API, which may result in breaking changes.
We highly recommend using keyword arguments, which can help to make such changes non-breaking on your end.

When the Bot API changes attributes of classes, the method :meth:`telegram.TelegramObject.to_dict` will change as necessary to reflect these changes.
In particular, attributes deprecated by Telegram will be removed from the returned dictionary.
Deprecated attributes that are still passed by Telegram will be available in the :attr:`~telegram.TelegramObject.api_kwargs` dictionary as long as PTB can support that with feasible effort.
Since attributes of the classes in the :mod:`telegram` package are not writable, we may change them to properties where appropriate.

Development Versions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Before a feature is in a release, it is not covered by this policy and may change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before a feature is in a release, it is not covered by this policy and may change drastically between versions.
```

Author: no, this is about code on master branch that's not been released yet

Reviewer 2: or about stuff in not stable releases no?

Author: No. non-stable releases are still releases. What I mean here is that code that hasn't made it to pypi can change at any time.

Reviewer 2: Wait but this doesn't make sense with the next sentence then. Since pre-releases are also not covered, can't you merge it in one sentence?

_Before a feature is in a stable release, i.e. the feature was merged into the master `branch` but not released yet or it is only present in pre-releases marked as alpha, beta or release candidate, it is not covered by this policy and may change at any time._

Pre-Release marked as alpha, beta or release candidate are not covered by this policy either.

Security
~~~~~~~~

We make exceptions from our stability policy for security.
We will violate this policy as necessary in order to resolve a security issue or harden PTB against a possible attack.

Versioning
----------

PTB uses a versioning scheme that roughly follows `https://semver.org/ <https://semver.org/>`_, although it may not be quite as strict.

Given a version of PTB X.Y.Z,

-  X indicates the major version number.
   This is incremented when backwards incompatible changes are introduced.
-  Y indicates the minor version number.
   This is incremented when new functionality or backwards compatible changes are introduced by PTB.

>    *This is also incremented when PTB adds support for a new Bot API version, which may include backwards incompatible changes in some cases as outlined* :ref:`below <bot-api-versioning>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   *This is also incremented when PTB adds support for a new Bot API version, which may include small backwards incompatible changes in some cases as outlined* :ref:`below <bot-api-versioning>`.
```

Author: Here I don't the see added value either as the word "small" is not very objective

Reviewer 2: Hmm, I still prefer the word flow more, but I can understand your sentiment

-  Z is the patch version.
   This is incremented if backwards compatible bug fixes or smaller changes are introduced.
   If this number is 0, it can be omitted, i.e. we just write X.Y instead of X.Y.0.

Deprecation
~~~~~~~~~~~

From time to time we will want to change the behavior of an API or remove it entirely, or we do so to comply with changes in the Telegram Bot API.
In those cases, we follow a deprecation schedule as detailed below.

Functionality is marked as deprecated by a corresponding note in the release notes and the documentation.
Where possible, a :class:`~telegram.warnings.PTBDeprecationWarning` is issued when deprecated functionality is used, but this is not mandatory.

From time to time, we may decide to deprecate an API that is particularly widely used.
In these cases, we may decide to provide an extended deprecation period, at our discretion.

> With version 20.0.0, PTB introduced majorly structural breaking changes without the above deprecation period.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With version 20.0.0, PTB introduced majorly structural breaking changes without the above deprecation period.
```
Can you say "majorly structural"? I'm not sure what is meant by it here :)

> Should a similarly big change ever be deemed necessary by the development team and should a deprecation period prove too much additional effort, this violation of the stability policy will be announced well ahead of the release in our channel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Should a similarly big change ever be deemed necessary again by the development team and should a deprecation period prove too much additional effort, this violation of the stability policy will be announced well ahead of the release in our channel.
```

Non-Bot API Functionality
#########################

Starting with version NEXT.VERSION, deprecated functionality will stay available for the current and the next major version.

> Let's see an example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example:
```

-  In PTB v20.1.1 the feature exists
-  In PTB v20.1.2 or v20.2.0 the feature is marked as deprecated
-  In PTB v21.*.* the feature is marked as deprecated
-  In PTB v22.0 the feature is removed or changed

.. _bot-api-versioning:

Bot API Functionality
#####################

As PTB has no control over deprecations introduced by Telegram and the schedule of these deprecations rarely coincides with PTBs deprecation schedule, we have a special policy for Bot API functionality.

Starting with NEXT.VERSION, deprecated Bot API functionality will stay available for the current and the next major version of PTB *or* until the next version of the Bot API.
More precisely, two cases are possible, for which we show examples below.

Case 1
^^^^^^

-  In PTB v20.1 the feature exists
-  Bot API version 6.6 is released and deprecates the feature

> -  In PTB v20.2 adds support for Bot API 6.6 and the feature is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  PTB v20.2 adds support for Bot API 6.6 and the feature is
```

or "in PTB v20.2, support for Bot API 6.6 is added and..."

Stability Policy
================

> The ``python-telegram-bot`` library (PTB) tries to provides a stable interface to it’s users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``python-telegram-bot`` library (PTB) tries to provides a stable interface to its users.
```

As both the user base and the complexity of the library has grown significantly since PTBs conception, we introduced below explicit stability Policy with version NEXT.VERSION.

Large parts of the :mod:`telegram` package are the Python representations of the Telegram Bot API, the stability policy of which PTB can not influence.
This policy hence includes some special cases for those parts.

What does this policy cover?
----------------------------

Non-Bot API Functionality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This policy includes any API or behavior that is documented in this documentation.
This covers both the :mod:`telegram` package and the :mod:`telegram.ext` package.

Bot API Functionality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> What doesn’t this policy cover?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What doesn't this policy cover?
```

-------------------------------

Introduction of new features or changes of flavors of comparable behavior (e.g. the default for the used HTTP protocol version) are not covered by this policy.
The internal structure of classes in PTB, i.e. things like the result of ``dir(obj))`` or the contents of ``obj.__dict__``, may change.

Objects are in general not guaranteed to be pickleable (unless stated otherwise) and pickled objects from one version of PTB may not be loadable in future versions.

> We may provide a way to convert pickled objects from one version to another, but this is not guaranteed.

Reviewer: maybe we can guide them to the pickle transition script if they would like to modify their own?

Author: you mean point them in the general direction of transition guides? I don't see the added value of that tbh …

Reviewer: yeah, that way they get a starting point on how to migrate their data, but maybe it's a rare case so I'm fine not mentioning it

> -  ☐ Document pickle stability for :class:`~telegram.TelegramObject` and error classes

Reviewer: ?
Already done above

Author: ah no, I meant that the docs of `TelegramObject` and the error classes should state that those can in fact be pickled (we made quite an effort for that), but there might still be loading issues on (major) version changes.

Reviewer: oh ok, that looked like a checkbox for us to complete

Author: That's exactly what it is, yes :D

While we try to make such changes backwards compatible, this is not always possible or only with significant effort.
In such cases we will find a trade-off between backwards compatibility and fully complying with the Bot API, which may result in breaking changes.
We highly recommend using keyword arguments, which can help to make such changes non-breaking on your end.

When the Bot API changes attributes of classes, the method :meth:`telegram.TelegramObject.to_dict` will change as necessary to reflect these changes.
In particular, attributes deprecated by Telegram will be removed from the returned dictionary.
Deprecated attributes that are still passed by Telegram will be available in the :attr:`~telegram.TelegramObject.api_kwargs` dictionary as long as PTB can support that with feasible effort.
Since attributes of the classes in the :mod:`telegram` package are not writable, we may change them to properties where appropriate.

Development Versions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before a feature is in a release, it is not covered by this policy and may change.

> Pre-Release marked as alpha, beta or release candidate are not covered by this policy either.

Reviewer: This section should be under "what doesn't this policy cover"

Author: mh, maybe the headings are a bit non-obvious, especially since there is currently an empty "Bot API Functionality" header under "what does this cover". I'll remove the sub-headings of "what does this cover". then the hierarchy is

- what does this cover
- what doesn't this cover
  - bot API
  - dev versions
  - security

Security
~~~~~~~~

We make exceptions from our stability policy for security.
We will violate this policy as necessary in order to resolve a security issue or harden PTB against a possible attack.

Versioning
----------

PTB uses a versioning scheme that roughly follows `https://semver.org/ <https://semver.org/>`_, although it may not be quite as strict.

Given a version of PTB X.Y.Z,

-  X indicates the major version number.
   This is incremented when backwards incompatible changes are introduced.
-  Y indicates the minor version number.
   This is incremented when new functionality or backwards compatible changes are introduced by PTB.

>    *This is also incremented when PTB adds support for a new Bot API version, which may include backwards incompatible changes in some cases.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   *This is also incremented when PTB adds support for a new Bot API version, which may include backwards incompatible changes in some cases as outlined above (insert link).*
```

-  Z is the patch version.

>    This is incremented for backwards incompatible changes or other major changes.

Reviewer: um no?

Author: upsie 😬

Deprecation
~~~~~~~~~~~

From time to time we will want to change the behavior of an API or remove it entirely, or we do so to comply with changes in the Telegram Bot API.
In those cases, we follow a deprecation schedule as detailed below.

Functionality is marked as deprecated by a corresponding note in the release notes and the documentation.

> Were possible, a :class:`~telegram.warnings.PTBDeprecationWarning` is issued when deprecated functionality is used, but this is not mandatory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where possible, a :class:`~telegram.warnings.PTBDeprecationWarning` is issued when deprecated functionality is used, but this is not mandatory.
```

From time to time, we may decide to deprecate an API that is particularly widely used.
In these cases, we may decide to provide an extended deprecation period, at our discretion.

With version 20.0.0, PTB introduced majorly structural breaking changes without the above deprecation period.
Should a similarly big change ever be deemed necessary by the development team and should a deprecation period prove too much additional effort, this violation of the stability policy will be announced well ahead of the release in our channel.

.. _non-bot-api-functionality-1:

Non-Bot API Functionality
#########################

Starting with version NEXT.VERSION, deprecated functionality will stay available for the current and the next major version.
More precisely:

-  In PTB X.Y.Z the feature exists
-  In PTB X.Y.(Z + 1) or X.(Y + 1).\* the feature is marked as deprecated
-  In PTB (X + 1).\ *.* the feature is marked as deprecated

> -  In PTB (X + 2).0.0 the feature is removed or changed

Reviewer: this is confusing to me. We should just say that deprecated functionality will be removed after two major versions, giving an example say, `If a non-bot api feature is marked deprecated at say, 20.2, then we will remove it in '22.0'`.

Reviewer: Btw, does #3632 violate this policy?

Author: I had hoped that this more schematic overview would make the policy more clear :D e.g. with "after two major versions" could also be interpreted as "if deprecated in 20.2, then it will be removed it 23.0 at earliest", (21.0 being the first and 22.0 being the second major version). We can still add an example, though

#3632 does not break the policy IMO since AFAIK we have documented nowhere that `Massage.date` & co are UTC-localized.

.. _bot-api-functionality-2:

Bot API Functionality
#####################

As PTB has no control over deprecations introduced by Telegram and the schedule of these deprecations rarely coincides with PTBs deprecation schedule, we have a special policy for Bot API functionality.

Starting with NEXT.VERSION, deprecated Bot API functionality will stay available for the current and the next major version *or* until the next version of the Bot API.
More precisely, two cases are possible.

Case 1
^^^^^^

-  In PTB X.Y.Z the feature exists
-  Bot API version N.M is released and deprecates the feature
-  In PTB X.(Y + 1).0 adds support for Bot API A.B and the feature is
   marked as deprecated
-  In PTB (X + 1).0.0 the feature is removed or changed

> Case 2

Reviewer: Case 2 doesn't make sense to me since the bot api has never removed a feature totally (other than 64 bit user ids), so this has never happened right?

Reviewer: I got more confused :( Is there a specific example in the commit history? When did we drop backward-compatibility-hacks like this? Would rewriting an already "patched" bot method to include new parameters count as an example?

Author: I don't recall that we already had such a case in the history, no. I guess we so far always made breaking changes in such cases. In the API 6.6 case my example would be that once API 6.7 is released, I want to drop all the `thumb(nail)` workarounds.

I converted the schematic overview to examples :)

^^^^^^

-  In PTB X.Y.Z the feature exists

> -  Bot API version N.M is released and deprecates the feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Bot API version N.M is released and deprecates the feature A
```

Author: Sorry, I first named the Bot API version A.B before renaming to N.M and missed one `A.B`. N (or formerly A) are numbers, not features

> -  In PTB X.(Y + 1).0 adds support for Bot API A.B and the feature is marked as deprecated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  PTB X.(Y + 1).0 adds support for Bot API N.M and the feature A is marked as deprecated
```

> -  Bot API version N.(M + 1) is released

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Bot API version N.(M + 1) is released, removing feature A
```

> -  In PTB X.(Y + 2).0 adds support for Bot API N.(M + 1) and the feature is removed or changed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  PTB X.(Y + 2).0 adds support for Bot API N.(M + 1) and the feature A is removed or changed
```

Stability Policy
================

.. important::

    This stability policy is in place since version NEXT.VERSION.

>     While also earlier version of ``python-telegram-bot`` had stable interfaces, they had no explicit stability policy and hence did not follow the rules outlined below in all details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    While earlier versions of ``python-telegram-bot`` also had stable interfaces, they had no explicit stability policy and hence did not follow the rules outlined below in detail.
```

    Please also refer to the :ref:`changelog <ptb-changelog>`.

.. caution::

>     Large parts of the :mod:`telegram` package are the Python representations of the Telegram Bot API, whose stability policy PTB can not influence.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Large parts of the :mod:`telegram` package are the Python representations of the Telegram Bot API, which stability policy PTB can not influence.
```

Author: Didn't we go over this before? 😄

Author: https://github.com/python-telegram-bot/python-telegram-bot/pull/3622#discussion_r1161248368

    This policy hence includes some special cases for those parts.

What does this policy cover?
----------------------------

This policy includes any API or behavior that is covered in this documentation.
This covers both the :mod:`telegram` package and the :mod:`telegram.ext` package.

What doesn't this policy cover?
-------------------------------

Introduction of new features or changes of flavors of comparable behavior (e.g. the default for the HTTP protocol version being used) are not covered by this policy.

> The internal structure of classes in PTB, i.e. things like the result of ``dir(obj))`` or the contents of ``obj.__dict__``, may change.

Reviewer 2: I dont like "may change" here. What about sticking to the first paragraph and say "not covered" instead?

Objects are in general not guaranteed to be pickleable (unless stated otherwise) and pickled objects from one version of PTB may not be loadable in future versions.
We may provide a way to convert pickled objects from one version to another, but this is not guaranteed.

> Functionality that is part of PTBs API but is explicitly documented as not to be intended to be used directly by users (e.g. :meth:`telegram.request.BaseRequest.do_request`) may change.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Functionality that is part of PTBs API but is explicitly documented as not being intended to be used directly by users (e.g. :meth:`telegram.request.BaseRequest.do_request`) may change.
```

This also applies to functions or attributes marked as final in the sense of `PEP 591 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0591/>`__.

> PTB has dependencies to 3rd party packages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
PTB has dependencies to 3rd-party packages.
```
[hyphenated](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/third-party) as an adjective
I would actually prefer "third-party" in an official document such as this

Author: ```suggestion
PTB has dependencies to third-party packages.
```

> The versions that PTB uses of these 3rd party packages may change if that does not change PTBs public API.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The versions that PTB uses of these third-party packages may change if that does not change PTBs public API.
```

> The versions that PTB uses of these third-party packages may change if that does not change PTBs public API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The versions that PTB uses of these third-party packages may change if that does not affect PTBs public API.
```

PTB does not give guarantees about which Python versions are supported.
In general, we will try to support all Python versions that have not yet reached their end of life, but we reserve ourselves the option to drop support for Python versions earlier if that benefits the advancement of the library.

.. _bot-api-functionality-1:

Bot API Functionality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Comparison of equality of instances of the classes in the :mod:`telegram` package is subject to change and the PTB team will update the behavior to best reflect updates in the Bot API.

When the order of arguments of the Bot API methods changes or they become optional/mandatory due to changes in the Bot API, PTB will always try to reflect these changes.
While we try to make such changes backward compatible, this is not always possible or only with significant effort.

> In such cases we will find a trade-off between backwards compatibility and fully complying with the Bot API, which may result in breaking changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In such cases we will find a trade-off between backward compatibility and fully complying with the Bot API, which may result in breaking changes.
```

> We highly recommend using keyword arguments, which can help to make such changes non-breaking on your end.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We highly recommend using keyword arguments, which can help make such changes non-breaking on your end.
```

..

>     We have documented a few common cases and possible backwards compatible solutions here in the wiki for reference for the dev team.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    We have documented a few common cases and possible backwards compatible solutions here in the wiki as a reference for the dev team.
```

To be moved to the wiki before merge:

A few cases can happen when Telegram makes changes to arguments of classes and methods.
Here are a few hints on how these can be handled in a compatible way that is backward compatible or at least minimizes the impact of the change.

> Whether these hints are applied or the change is just implemented in a breaking way may be decided by the dev team on a case by case basis.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Whether these hints are applied or the change is just implemented in a breaking way may be decided by the dev team on a case-by-case basis.
```
[hyphenate](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/case-by-case)

This depends e.g. on the currently available capacity.

1. Optional arguments become mandatory

   1. Keep the argument optional in the method signature

>    2. If the argument is not passed, raise a ``ValueError`` with a helpful message

Reviewer 3: by the way, there's a difference here that I tried to follow when I was doing that `thumb_url` stuff.

If a required argument is not passed, Python raises `TypeError`, and the common practice AFAIK is to throw what Python throws. 

If both old and new are passed, I raise `ValueError`. 

That was my logic. I'm not agains raising `ValueError` in all cases for consistency, it's just that it's not consistent with default Python behavior.

Same for other cases below.

Author: No, you're completely right. I just didn't really think about that while tying …

   That way it's still a breaking change, but at least passed values are not randomly assigned to the wrong argument.

2. New positional argument is added and changes the order of the arguments

   1. Add it as optional argument
   2. If the argument is not passed, raise a ``ValueError`` with a helpful message

> 2. Optional argument is renamed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Optional argument is renamed
```
Next one will be 4.

   1. Keep the old argument name in the method signature
   2. If the old argument is passed, issue a deprecation warning with a helpful message
   3. If both the old and the new argument are passed, raise a ``ValueError`` with a helpful message.

4. Mandatory argument is renamed

   1. Keep the old argument name in the method signature and make it optional
   2. If the old argument is passed, issue a deprecation warning with a helpful message

>    3. If neither the old nor the new argument is not passed, raise a ``ValueError`` with a helpful message

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   3. If neither the old nor the new argument is passed, raise a ``ValueError`` with a helpful message
```

   4. If the old argument is not the first mandatory argument, make the ones before optional as well and raise a ``ValueError`` if they are not passed

When the Bot API changes attributes of classes, the method :meth:`telegram.TelegramObject.to_dict` will change as necessary to reflect these changes.
In particular, attributes deprecated by Telegram will be removed from the returned dictionary.
Deprecated attributes that are still passed by Telegram will be available in the :attr:`~telegram.TelegramObject.api_kwargs` dictionary as long as PTB can support that with feasible effort.
Since attributes of the classes in the :mod:`telegram` package are not writable, we may change them to properties where appropriate.

Development Versions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before a feature is in a release, i.e. the feature was merged into the ``master`` branch but not released yet, it is not covered by this policy and may change.

> Pre-Release marked as alpha, beta or release candidate are not covered by this policy either.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Pre-releases marked as alpha, beta or release candidate are not covered by this policy either.
```
or "is"

Security
~~~~~~~~

We make exceptions from our stability policy for security.
We will violate this policy as necessary in order to resolve a security issue or harden PTB against a possible attack.

Versioning
----------

PTB uses a versioning scheme that roughly follows `https://semver.org/ <https://semver.org/>`_, although it may not be quite as strict.

Given a version of PTB X.Y.Z,

> -  X indicates the major version number.

Reviewer 3: add backticks around X, Y, Z?

Author: I don't quite see the need tbh … we don't put v20.2 in monospace either … 🤔

>    This is incremented when backwards incompatible changes are introduced.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   This is incremented when backward incompatible changes are introduced.
```

-  Y indicates the minor version number.

>    This is incremented when new functionality or backwards compatible changes are introduced by PTB.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   This is incremented when new functionality or backward compatible changes are introduced by PTB.
```

>    *This is also incremented when PTB adds support for a new Bot API version, which may include backwards incompatible changes in some cases as outlined* :ref:`below <bot-api-versioning>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   *This is also incremented when PTB adds support for a new Bot API version, which may include backward incompatible changes in some cases as outlined* :ref:`below <bot-api-versioning>`.
```

-  Z is the patch version.

>    This is incremented if backwards compatible bug fixes or smaller changes are introduced.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   This is incremented if backward compatible bug fixes or smaller changes are introduced.
```

   If this number is 0, it can be omitted, i.e. we just write X.Y instead of X.Y.0.

Deprecation
~~~~~~~~~~~

From time to time we will want to change the behavior of an API or remove it entirely, or we do so to comply with changes in the Telegram Bot API.
In those cases, we follow a deprecation schedule as detailed below.

Functionality is marked as deprecated by a corresponding note in the release notes and the documentation.
Where possible, a :class:`~telegram.warnings.PTBDeprecationWarning` is issued when deprecated functionality is used, but this is not mandatory.

From time to time, we may decide to deprecate an API that is particularly widely used.
In these cases, we may decide to provide an extended deprecation period, at our discretion.

With version 20.0.0, PTB introduced major structural breaking changes without the above deprecation period.

> Should a similarly big change ever be deemed necessary again by the development team and should a deprecation period prove too much additional effort, this violation of the stability policy will be announced well ahead of the release in our channel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Should a similarly big change ever be deemed necessary again by the development team and should a deprecation period prove too much additional effort, this violation of the stability policy will be announced well ahead of the release in our channel, `as was done with V20 <https://t.me/pythontelegrambotchannel/94>`_.
```
I thought maybe an example is nice.
